The Joe Rogan experience. My pleasure. So tell me what's up. Are we in trouble?
What's going on, man? It's world war three. Haven't you heard? Is.
It oh no, no, it's not. No, I'm no, I'm here to burst that bubble. I think. Um,
not that anyone's going to say. Okay. I, I I'm writing this down. Like I said,
no world war three. Uh, but it was, it was amazing how,
how fast the I'll put that closer there. It was amazing how fast the, uh,
the narrative came out. Anatomy we'd barely smoked, uh,
Subramanian and suddenly, uh, the current president's going to get us into this,
this, uh, conflict. And I was nervous. Well,
I think everybody stepped back because it was such a shock to the system. Right.
We had, I mean, what was the last time we dealt with Iran in this fashion?
I mean, as opposed to like a harshly worded DeMar or a note,
or maybe an extra sanction here or there, but that it was such a strange,
um, uh, development that I think it did. And the natural reaction was to say,
oh my God, here we go. You know? And certainly everybody's exhausted from,
you know, 19 years out there. So, but you know.
It was a shock that Trump could make that call because they had a bunch of
different options. They had like, or we could kill him. He's like,
let's kill him.
I was like, whoa, I didn't know. You could do that. Well, you know what, he's,
he's been a target before Sumani.
Is, I mean, it's, there's, I guess I should first say, um,
where I stand on all this, which is I'm, I'm not mourning his, uh, his,
his passing, right? I mean, I think he deserved it.
I think it was justice that should have been served up sometime ago.
He's responsible, not just, not just war,
as people have talked about the hundreds of, of a us serviceman, uh,
but thousands and thousands of people. This guy was a completely, uh,
bloodthirsty. I mean, there's no way about it and it, and it was,
and we're talking about the second most, um, structure wise,
the second most important person within the Iranian machine next to the,
I told her. So, but the idea that somehow we took out a foreign leader,
right. Or a military general, like he was some sort of, you know,
Eisenhower, uh, is insane. The guy was a mob boss. He was,
he was the head terrorist for a state.
That is the number one sponsor of terrorism around the world.
And so, but he's been on,
on target lists for a long time. You go back to, I think 2008,
there was an operation to take out a guy named Mugnier, who, uh,
himself was also a bloodthirsty psychopath. And, um,
he was running Hezbollah operations. So the Israelis, uh,
I'd been tracking him as had we, um, and, uh,
at one point they had an opportunity to take out McNeil and also uh Sulaymani
and they backed off at the time. Um,
essentially because the U S wouldn't get behind the idea that we're going to
take out Soleimani. That was, you know, at that point.
And that was a step too far. So they eventually, we got Magonia. Um,
but Soleimani is just, I mean,
I don't even know where to start with the amount of blood that he he's
responsible for. Um, people talk about again, okay.
He authorized operations and activities in Iraq against us soldiers and against
Iraqi soldiers and Iraqi civilians. But it goes back to the beginning of that.
I mean,
you could go back to 2003 and Sue
Amani was, he was the architect.
He dreamt up this idea as the us was going into Iraq that,
um, he was going to, I mean, what he did was insane. He basically authorized,
I mean, he's in charge, right?
So he authorizes the release of a bunch of SUNY's that they've been holding
onto, around being shot. Um, arch rivals being the Sunni's essentially,
um, and the Saudis are, are their arch enemy, a SUNY nation. And,
but he released all these Sunni extremists that Iran had been holding on to, uh,
essentially ever since we had gone into Afghanistan right after nine 11,
and he released them into Iraq,
including a guy named [inaudible], who became the head of Al Qaeda in Iraq.
And within a few months of our getting out to Iraq,
the, uh, the Sunni's, uh, under basically under Sewell monies to tillage,
uh,
had a series of bombings and started bombing everything from Shia mosques to,
uh, UN facilities, uh, Jordanian embassy, a variety of targets,
killing thousands of Shiites. Now he's a Shiite, right?
So this is how bad this guy is.
He goes into Iraq with this plan that I'm going to push the Shiite in
Iraq to Iran. I'm going to, I'm going to make them come to us for protection,
for coverage. Essentially, we can write in there because he, what does he want?
He wants to exert their influence within Iraq. He doesn't want a strong Iraq.
He doesn't want the U S and they're building a strong stable Iraq. I mean,
you go back to the Iran, Iraq war, where Sumani started his military career,
and, you know, he's not, he, there's no way that he's a true believer.
There's no way he's ever going to let a rock become stable again.
And he's insane enough that he kills thousands of shy his
own people, right. In order to push, um,
the Shiite population in Iraq to Iran.
I know if I'm like being eloquent enough, but false flag operations,
who is he blaming.
The islands? The Sunni's it's, the Sunni's are doing Sunni extremists. Yeah.
But,
but he's authorized and he's pushed them into Iraq to do this under.
And so he's,
he was always very unusually capable at walking a fine
line between, uh, his own, uh, she,
uh, believes population. And at times,
being able to be sort of a puppet master for Sunni extremist when it suited his
cause. And it's, I mean, it's, it's anyway, it's fascinating stuff.
And whether it was dealing with, um, Hezbollah, you know, Palestinian,
Islamic, jihad, whomever, he, uh, again,
I keep going back to the same thing. He deserved what he got,
no doubt in my mind. Um, and I'm just surprised it didn't happen sooner.
Maybe not from us, but from others. They just, it, back in October,
the Iranians, you know, claimed that they foiled, uh,
an assassination attempt against Soleimani by Israel and some unnamed Arab
agents. So it's not as if we just plucked his name out, you know,
he'd spent two decades, you know, engaged in,
in death and mayhem. Now.
The take on him dying has not been like the take on Baghdadi and Baghdadi.
One of the most disturbing things that I saw was the Washington post called him
in his store, religious scholar. Did you, did you see that? Yeah,
when that guy died, they called them in the store,
religious scholar and people that I've talked to that understand who
he was and what was going on. There were fuming. They were like, what is this?
Not who the wrote this? Right. You're talking about a terrorist,
a real legitimate murderous terrorist.
And you're calling them in a store religious scholar.
Right. You're giving them this credibility that I don't understand that either.
I saw that. And I talked to a handful of people who, um, you know,
kind of leaned in that direction. And, and, and,
and also you get the same thing with Sulaymani. Now. I don't want money.
I can understand he's wrapped in the cloak of a, of a military uniform. And,
you know, people saw him sitting next to the Ayatollah and that okay. Uh,
but I look at it the same way. There's this is not a assassinating,
a foreign leader. This is not assassinating, a, a revered scholar. This is, uh,
taking out, uh, uh, terrorists, bloodthirsty terrorists,
who have a long track record of, of killing people. And, and, and it's not,
he was, he was not, uh, you know, he was not choosy, right.
Which it was still Amani. We're talking about again, uh, Iraqis, humanities,
um, uh, you know, Syrians, um, his own people.
We, you know, they,
they talk about maybe some 1500 or so protesters being killed in Iran,
uh, in the past few months,
as a result of the protests against the Iranian regime,
primarily because of corruption. You know, the,
the fact that they've driven that economy into a toilet, uh,
at the expense of the Iranian people, a lack of,
of rights of any sword and pseudo Mani, again, as the head of the goods force,
you know, the number two person there he's responsible. So I,
I don't understand anybody who doesn't just say. Yeah.
And I think the left had a hard time with it to hard left.
You saw them spinning a little bit saying, okay,
we don't say he shouldn't have gotten it. We don't say he didn't deserve it,
but, and then they had to try to figure out some way to,
because it's all gotta be about politics now. So bring it back to the president.
Trump, whenever Trump does anything, even if what he does is fantastic,
they can't get behind it.
They almost have to get a go against things that are great.
Like if the economy is great, they've got to find a reason why it's bad.
The economy is great. If it's his decisions lead to something positive,
they can't accept it. That's unfortunate.
Well, we've lost ability to, uh, I think to look at things, um,
just in an objective fashion, in any sense of the word objective,
or certainly when we don't have civil conversations anymore. But,
but the idea that we can look at and separate the politics from it, look,
I know, you know, again, I don't care whether people like Trump or not. I don't,
I, you know, I didn't vote for him.
I don't meet him necessarily care for the individual,
but that doesn't mean I can't like policies.
And whether you're talking about what's going on with Iran,
whether you're talking about, you know,
the way that we've been dealing with China lately, um, other issues, I,
you know, Hey, I liked, I liked, uh, president Obama.
Didn't like his policies, you know, I don't necessarily like Trump.
I like his policies. I don't want, I don't see any conflict there. Yeah. But.
Anyway, no, I don't see any conflict there. Either being,
people are complicated. And I just,
I just didn't know that Trump could make the call.
Like he could be the guy that goes, take him out. Like when, when,
when I thought that was like,
there was probably a panel of military leaders and like really important people
that understand the ramifications, a lot of game show hosts, like.
An America's got talent or something for people sitting there as a buzzer,
I felt like it would be like some thing that they would discuss.
That the Trump would be like, yeah, option three, them.
And there is a great deal of conversation that goes on.
Not necessarily with the president, you know, I,
I have no idea how he processes his information. Um,
but there's a great deal of conversation and discussion that goes on in the
Pentagon, within the Intel community and, and national security council. Um,
you know,
what happens once they lay out these options in front of the president?
You know, I don't have a clue, but, um, he does have that authority.
He's got that ability. And president Obama had that authority,
president Obama took out, remember us citizens, um, you know, the, who would,
you know, overseas in, uh, in the middle east. And there were, you know,
there was a human cry over the sort of the, the legality of it,
but you didn't see a lot of people saying, you know, in part, okay. I admit,
because it wasn't, again, this, you know, Sulaymani is wrapped in a cloak of,
of his military uniform.
And it's all,
so people were very concerned about this possibility of what's going to war with
Iran and they think that this might have started that off.
Yeah. Yeah. I think, um,
what changed the calculus here is Iran is, you know,
the regime is brutal and awful. They're not crazy.
And the one thing they want more than anything else is to retain power,
that's it. And I think they looked at the idea of a, of a military conflict,
a direct military conflict with the U S and this is not to say that their
proxies won't strike out at us someplace around the world at some point. Um,
but the, the regime looked at that and thought, nah, you know what,
we're not going to do this in, in part because you know,
the killing of Soleimani is important on a much bigger level than just taking
out, you know, a, uh, a, uh, a terrorist of his stature.
Um, it's important for deterrence purposes. And so, you know, again,
I think they looked and felt like the calculus in dealing with the us has
shifted now, and they don't understand it. They're not comfortable with it.
And also they can't afford it. Like w if we got in the military conflict,
that was just the idea that, you know,
somehow we were going to get in world war three, it would be over in an evening.
Literally it would be over in one night,
we have the ability to take out their entire energy infrastructure. Um,
their missile bases, their key military facilities.
And I don't want to oversimplify this, but after that first night's activity,
that's it they're done. So the idea that somehow there's going to be now,
does that mean that, you know, we should do that. Of course not,
nobody wants a military conflict, but, you know,
and again, there would be knock-on repercussions, et cetera, et cetera.
So hopefully we can sort this thing out through now that we're doing the
military deterrence and they understand that we're serious,
we've got the economic pressures,
we've got diplomatic pressure primarily to keep them isolated. I think,
you know, I think we're on the right track with, with Iran.
I think we're gonna see a different reaction.
From them. Well,
I was a little bit relieved when they attack back and just sort of like
launched missiles on the outside of basis. Nobody died. I was like, okay.
So it seems like this is almost like they're,
they're making a signal like they're attacking,
but they're not really doing anything.
I think there was an optic to it. I think you're right, absolutely.
That they felt like they had to do something. Yeah.
I told this guy that I don't know what he called saving face or not, but, um,
you know, and the, and we had a warning, we have warning ahead of time.
And didn't, they print in their paper.
Didn't they say that they killed a bunch of people. They did the missile attack.
Yeah.
They claimed about 80 or so I think keeps them right, exactly.
Just do whatever it takes. But then, I mean, you know, and,
but look at the reaction that we've had, you know, of course the Ukrainian, uh,
commercial passenger jet, uh, went down, um, and that was them,
right? Oh, that was, that was definitely them. Uh.
When do you think that they shot it down because they thought it was a us
military plane.
Yeah. It was an it, look, this is it. This it's not unprecedented. I mean,
we shut down an Iranian passenger jet years and years ago. Right.
The Russians shot down and they still won't admit to it, but they shut down a,
uh, uh, passenger jet over Ukraine. Uh, yeah. What, uh,
just a handful of years ago that, which they still won't admit to. Um, it's,
it's human error and it's human error in a conflict zone in a,
in a situation where there's,
there's a lot of moving parts and it's never going to be a zero risk game.
So if the Iranians had done this as tragic as it is and come out and said,
oh my God, we, you know, we did this okay, where this, you know,
it would have been horrific, but they, um, you know,
they did this to themselves because they just couldn't bring themselves to be
truthful. Uh, they've got a long track record of not, uh, and so they,
they engaged in this and, and shut it down.
When you find missile debris in a, uh,
in a field where you're doing an investigation of a plane crash,
that's a pretty good indication. And then there's the video on top of that?
Well, there is a video of the missile hitting the plane. Yeah. Two missiles. Oh,
Jesus Christ. 30 seconds support, roughly 30 seconds apart.
So two missiles to down a plane. Yeah. It.
Hit the first one, uh, the first one hit. Um, and then about 30 seconds later,
not quite 30 seconds later, the second missile hits, um, there's a,
another fireball and the plane stays up in the air for, you know,
a period of time just cause it's just, it's not devastated, but it's, it,
it was some 20 miles from the airport.
And it actually kind of made up as if it was turning back to the airport
probably right after that first missile hit. But here's the thing, uh, I mean,
that was, that's a tragic disaster right there. Right. But the idea that,
you know, somehow nobody's, nobody's actually saying they did it on purpose.
They didn't do it on purpose. They did it, it was an accident.
They mistook it for either an incoming missile, uh, or a hostile aircraft,
you know,
coming in for a bombing run after they launched their ballistic missile strike.
So nobody's saying it was done on purpose. Um, but it's,
it's again, it's,
it's indicative of the revolutionary guard force. Um,
and the regime itself that they spent several days denying it and saying it was
mechanical failure and pressuring the Ukrainians to come out and say it was
mechanical failure,
which they then reversed course on that once it became obvious. Um, yeah.
So, uh, it's a tragic situation,
but now the protests out in the streets of Iran,
which are a continuation of the past several months, right.
Which were targeted at a corrupt regime, have picked up strength in,
in light of that because the people are just like, we're tired of this,
you know, so, and who knows where it's going to go? I suspect,
unfortunately I'm fairly cynical about all this.
We've been hoping that Iranian population would kind of rise up for
decades and it doesn't happen because it's a pretty brutal regime.
We don't understand that. We don't understand how, how difficult they are.
Right. And how serious minded they are about holding onto power.
So every now and then we think, okay,
how come the protest is going to top a little regime and it doesn't happen.
So maybe it's different this time. I'd, you know, I don't think so. Hmm.
Now, were you concerned at all? And this is one of the things when,
when you say that we could go in there and level them in a day,
the real issue is their allies, right? The real issue is China and Russia.
Yeah. But they're not gonna do anything. China and Russia,
aren't gonna do anything. It's not in their best interest. And they, they,
if they're consistent about one thing,
both those countries it's that they act in their own best interests and they
would look at that and go, yeah, yeah. Sorry. Um, I mean, look,
so what are we dealing with in, in that immediate area? Um, Iran,
his closest ally is Syria, right? So Normani, so money spent, you know,
uh, billions of, uh, you know, uh,
Iranian dollars or money, um, that they couldn't afford to.
And that should've been spent on its population, um, arming training, equipping,
and dealing with, um, the Syrian, uh,
war and keeping his pal Assad in power. Um,
so Iran and Syria are tied together,
but as Syria in a position to somehow rise up and, you know, engage,
this is not going to be, this wouldn't have been a conflict as we imagine it.
Right.
It wouldn't be a conflict of occupying space and ground and all the rest of it.
Nobody wants it. Nobody needs, it's not, it's not good for anybody.
I'm not saying that. I'm just saying that, uh, in the scheme of things, um,
where you would have overwhelming, um, superior support superiority and,
and yeah, I, I, I can't imagine a scenario where Russia, you know,
would come in and we, in fact, we would probably, um, as, uh, you know,
as anybody would, we would say, okay, look, the Russian military is in Syria.
We're going to liaise where they're going to advise you, you know, coming down.
And cause we,
the last thing we want to do is drag them into it by hitting some of their
facilities or personnel or whatever.
So there would be that level of coordination,
which there always is no matter who the parties are,
there's always some element of coordination. But anyway, yeah,
I don't see that happening.
I think we've averted that I hope we've averted sort of further military, uh,
no conflict. Uh, I think again,
I think the Iranian regime understands it's a new day,
perhaps that they'll come to the table eventually.
That's what this whole maximum pressure campaign is about is to again,
create sufficient economic pressure,
ensure that they understand the idea of deterrence, uh,
which I think they do after this strike on Sulaymani. Um, and that,
that goes back a ways that it wasn't just like something that just, you know,
they thought after an American contractor was killed,
the Iranian regime had been ratcheting up their aggressiveness and their attacks
and their various operations out in that region for a, quite a while.
And we had been talking to them about it or getting the signal to them that
you've got to stop this. And back in December, they were told, look,
if you continue this path, we are going to take serious action.
We did.